#23: added a lua script which creates user roles (role name + role id) (#25)
exasol/row-level-security: doc/user_guide/user_guide.md

Role-based security is a way to secure a table by assigning one or more roles to each user and specifying the roles which are allowed to see a row for each row in the table. 

> #### Creating administration scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Installing the Administration Scripts
```

RLS provides UDF functions that make administration of RLS more user-friendly.

> **Important:** all the scripts must be created in the same schema with tables that are supposed to be protected with rle-base security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** all the scripts must be created in the same schema as the tables that you plan to protect with row-level-security.
```

> First create all the scripts from the file `administration-sql-scripts-<last-version>.sql`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the administration scripts, run the SQL batch file `administration-sql-scripts-<last-version>.sql`.
```

> #### Creating roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Creating Roles
```

Create user roles using `ADD_RLS_ROLE(rome_name, role_id)` script. 

> `rome_name` is a unique role name. This parameter is **case-insensitive** that means you can't have roles `sales` and `Sales` at the same time.

Reviewer: It is not true that the parameter is case insensitive, since the role is saved in the original case. Only the conflict check is case-insensitive.

Author: fixed

`role_id` is a unique role id. It can be in range from 1 to 63.

> ```sql

Reviewer: Add "Examples:" on top. Same for other occurrences.

Author: done

EXECUTE SCRIPT ADD_RLS_ROLE('Sales', 1);
EXECUTE SCRIPT ADD_RLS_ROLE('Development', 2);
EXECUTE SCRIPT ADD_RLS_ROLE('Finance', 3);
```

> #### Getting a list of created roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Getting a List of Created Roles
```

```sql 
SELECT * FROM MY_SCHEMA.EXA_ROLES_MAPPING;
```

The script for this command will be provided in a future release.

#### Assigning Roles to Users

Assign roles to users using `ASSIGN_ROLES_TO_USER(user_name, array roles)` script.

`user_name` is a name of user created inside Exasol database.
`roles` is an array of existing roles to assign. This parameter is **case-sensitive**.

```sql
EXECUTE SCRIPT ASSIGN_ROLES_TO_USER('RLS_USR_1', ARRAY('Sales', 'Development'));
EXECUTE SCRIPT ASSIGN_ROLES_TO_USER('RLS_USR_2', ARRAY('Development'));
```

> **Important:** if you assign roles to the same user several times, the script rewrites user roles each time using a new array. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** if you assign roles to the same user several times, the script rewrites user roles each time using a new array. That means that at any time a user has the exact set of roles stated in the _last_ assignment command.
```

> #### Getting a list of users with assigned roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Getting a List of Users With Assigned Roles
```

```sql 
SELECT * FROM MY_SCHEMA.EXA_RLS_USERS;
```

> The script for this command with a string list of roles output will be provided in a future release.

Reviewer: Move the sentence to the top of this section. Same for similar cases.

```suggestion
This script will be added in an upcoming release. 
```

Role-based security is a way to secure a table by assigning one or more roles to each user and specifying the roles which are allowed to see a row for each row in the table. 

#### Installing the Administration Scripts

RLS provides functions that make administration of RLS more user-friendly.

**Important:** all the scripts must be created in the same schema as the tables that you plan to protect with row-level-security.

To install the administration scripts, run the SQL batch file `administration-sql-scripts-<last-version>.sql`.

#### Creating Roles

> Create user roles using `ADD_RLS_ROLE(rome_name, role_id)` script. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create user roles using `ADD_RLS_ROLE(role_name, role_id)` script. 
```

> `rome_name` is a unique role name. The check for an existing role is **case-insensitive** that means you can't have roles `sales` and `Sales` at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`role_name` is a unique role name. The check for an existing role is **case-insensitive** that means you can't have roles `sales` and `Sales` at the same time.
```

);
```

> Use `ROLES_MASK` UDF-Function to generate roles mask for tables or for updating the tables with the masks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use tuen `ROLES_MASK` function to generate roles mask for tables or for updating the tables with the masks.
```

Author: What is tuen?

);
```

Use `ROLES_MASK`function to generate roles mask for tables or for updating the tables with the masks.

An example of generating a role mask which can be later manually inserted into the `EXA_ROW_ROLES` columns:

```sql 
SELECT MY_SCHEMA.ROLES_MASK(ROLE_ID) from MY_SCHEMA.EXA_ROLES_MAPPING WHERE ROLE_NAME IN ('Sales', 'Development')
```

**Important:** Role names are **case-sensitive**.

You can insert generated masks directly to the table:

```sql
INSERT INTO SIMPLE_SALES.ORDER_ITEM VALUES
(1, 'John Smith', 'Pen', 3, 1),
(1, 'John Smith', 'Paper', 100, 3),
(1, 'John Smith', 'Eraser', 1, 7),
(2, 'Jane Doe', 'Pen', 2, 2),
(2, 'Jane Doe', 'Paper', 200, 1);
```

An example of updating the table using `ROLES_MASK` function:

```sql 
UPDATE LOCATIONS
SET EXA_ROW_ROLES = (SELECT MY_SCHEMA.ROLES_MASK(ROLE_ID) FROM MY_SCHEMA.EXA_ROLES_MAPPING WHERE ROLE_NAME IN ('Sales', 'Development'))
WHERE customer IN ('John Smith', 'Jane Doe');
```

#### Deleting Roles

> Delete roles using `DELETE_RLS_ROLE(role_name)` script. The script removes the role from all places where is was mentioned:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Delete roles using `DELETE_RLS_ROLE(role_name)` script. The script removes the role from all places where it is mentioned:
```

1. From the list of existing roles.
2. From users who have the role in the roles mask.
3. From all tables which are roles-secured.

> `rome_name` is a unique role name. This parameter is **case-insensitive**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`role_name` is a unique role name. This parameter is **case-insensitive**.
```

> (2, 'Jane Doe', 'Paperclip', 50, POWER(2,63));

Reviewer: This example line does not fit since the the script will never return `POWER()`.

Author: removed

```

> An example of updating the table using `ROLES_MASK` UDF-Function:

Reviewer: UDF = User Defined Function

Just call it "function" everywhere. It does not matter to users that this is a UDF.

Author: done

> ```sql 

Reviewer: Add empty line above.

Author: done

UPDATE LOCATIONS
SET EXA_ROW_ROLES = (SELECT MY_SCHEMA.ROLES_MASK(ROLE_ID) FROM MY_SCHEMA.EXA_ROLES_MAPPING WHERE ROLE_NAME IN ('Sales', 'Development'))
WHERE customer IN ('John Smith', 'Jane Doe');
```

#### Deleting Roles

Delete roles using `DELETE_RLS_ROLE(role_name)` script. The script removes the role from all places where is was mentioned:

> 1. From the list of existing roles.

Reviewer: Add new line above.

Author: done
